Add a documentation for extended settings (#2367)
OpenMW/openmw: docs/source/reference/modding/extended.rst

Extended modding feature overview
#################################

> OpenMW supports some extended moddong features out of box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenMW supports some extended modding features out of box.
```

> These features can conflict with some mods, and such situations should be handled as any mod other conflict - a conflicted mod should be patched.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These features can conflict with some mods, and such situations should be handled as any other mod conflict - a conflicted mod should be patched.
```

The engine itself does not provide any kind of blacklisting.

Native herbalism support
------------------------

> In OpenMW it is possible to add one or many NiSwitchNodes with a ``HerbalismSwitch`` name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In OpenMW it is possible to add one or more NiSwitchNodes with a ``HerbalismSwitch`` name.
```

> Every such switch should have at least two child nodes (a first one represents the node in the normal mode, the second one - in the harvested mode).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every such switch should have at least two child nodes (where the first one represents the node in the normal mode, and subsequent ones - in the harvested mode).
```

> If an organic container's mesh has such nodes, it it considered as a plant. During activation a window with plant's content is not shown,

Reviewer 2: "it it" -> "it is"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If an organic container's mesh has such nodes, it is considered as a plant. When it is activated the loot window is not displayed,
```

> If an organic container's mesh has such nodes, it it considered as a plant. During activation a window with plant's content is not shown,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an organic container's mesh has such nodes, it is considered to be a plant. During activation, a window with the plant's content is not shown,
```

> OpenMW moves its content directly to player, triggers a theft crime if the plant is owned and switches its mesh to the harvested state.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
OpenMW transfers the contents directly into the player's inventory, triggers a theft crime event if the plant is owned and toggles the harvested model state.
```

> Also it is possible to use scripts with OnActivate command for such containers. For example, when player needs a tool to harvest a plant (e.g. a pickaxe for ore).

Reviewer 2: I think "OnActivate" must be written in monospace font

> Also it is possible to use scripts with OnActivate command for such containers. For example, when player needs a tool to harvest a plant (e.g. a pickaxe for ore).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is also possible to use scripts with OnActivate command for such containers. For example, when player needs a tool to harvest a plant (e.g. a pickaxe for ore).
```

> Keep in mind that a collision detection system does not consider switch nodes, so use the RootCollisionNode or the ``NCO`` NiStringExtraData for harvestable meshes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that the collision detection system ignores switch nodes, so add a ``RootCollisionNode`` or ``NCO`` NiStringExtraData to harvestable meshes.
```

Advantages of described approach over old herbalism mods:

1. There is no need to spawn separate "harvested" objects

2. There is no need to attach a script to every container

> 3. It supports an ownership check (an original engine without MWSE does not)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. It supports an ownership check (the original engine without MWSE does not)
```

> 4. It does not alter an original respawn mechanics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. It does not alter original respawn mechanics
```

> An example of mod which uses this feature is the `Graphic Herbalism`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example of mod which uses this feature is `Graphic Herbalism`_.
```

Animated containers support
---------------------------

> It is possible to attach opening/closing animations for containers. To do it, you need to create a KF-file for container with such groups:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to attach opening/closing animations for containers. To do this, you need to create a KF-file for container with such groups:
```

1. ``Idle`` (with ``Start`` and ``Stop`` keys)

2. ``ContainerOpen`` (with ``Start``, ``Loot`` and ``Stop`` keys)

3. ``ContainerClose`` (with ``Start`` and ``Stop`` keys)

The ``Idle`` group can have the zero time, the ``Loot`` key for ``ContainerOpen`` allows to play a part of opening animation in the background.

> For example, with such setup the opening animation has the 1.0 sec duration, but shows the container window in the middle of opening animation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, with the following setup, the opening animation has 1.0 sec duration and shows the container window in the middle of opening animation:
```

> ``0.0: ContainerOpen: start``

Reviewer 2: In lists above keys (such as `start`) written in Title case, I think it is better use the same case in all places

``0.5: ContainerOpen: loot``

``1.0: ContainerOpen: stop``

> Also it is possible to attach opening/closing sounds to container's animations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is also possible to attach opening/closing sounds to container's animations:
```

``1.0: ContainerClose: open``

``1.01: Sound: AC_dw_drawer_close``

``2.0: ContainerClose: stop``

An approach is the same as for other animation sounds (you need to register sound record in the ESM/ESP file).

> Note that the sound time is slightly higher than the closing animation start, otherwise sound will be played in the end of opening animation in this example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the sound starting time value is slightly higher than the closing animation start, otherwise sound will be played at the end of opening animation in this example.
```

> It is to important to assign a RootCollisionNode for container mesh, otherwise the collision will depend on animation state, what can lead to performance drops.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is important to assign a RootCollisionNode to the container mesh -- the collision shape will depend on the animation state otherwise, what can have a performance impact.
```

Advantages of described approach over old animated containers mods:

1. There is no need to attach a script to every container

> 2. Part of opening animation can be played in the background, so we do not waste a player's time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Part of opening animation can be played in the background, so we do not waste player's time
```

> An example of mod which uses this feature is the `OpenMW Containers Animated`_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An example of mod which uses this feature is `OpenMW Containers Animated`_.
```

Day/night state support
-----------------------

> In OpenMW it is possible to add one or many NiSwitchNodes with a ``NightDaySwitch`` name.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is possible to add one or more NiSwitchNodes named ``NightDaySwitch``.
```

Every such switch should have at least two child nodes

> (a first one represents the node in the normal mode, the second one - in the night mode, the optional third node - a day mode for interiors).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(first one represents the node in the normal mode, second one - in the night mode, the optional third node - a day mode for interiors).
```

> How such mesh behaves:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The behavior of such a model:
```

1. During day in exteriors it is in the "common" mode (child 0).

> 2. During night in exteriors it is in the "night" mode (child 0).

Reviewer 2: I think you mean "child 1"?

> 3. During day in interiors it is in the "common" mode or "interor day" mode (child 2) depending on weather.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. During day in interiors it is in the "common" mode or "interior day" mode (child 2), depending on weather.
```

4. During night in interiors it is in the "common" mode.

An actual switch time depends on weather settings in openmw.cfg:

> ``fallback=Weather_Sunrise_Time,6``

Reviewer 2: This lines must be in the some section? If so, it is better to specify this, like for `[Game]` section in examples below

Author: openmw.cfg has no sections.

``fallback=Weather_Sunset_Time,18``

``fallback=Weather_Sunrise_Duration,2``

``fallback=Weather_Sunset_Duration,2``

With this example a night mode starts at 20:00 and ends at 6:00.

> In interiors we check if the weather is bright to enter the "interior day" mode using the Glare_View setting. If it is >= 0.5, we consider weather as bright:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In interiors we check if the weather is bright to enter the "interior day" mode using the Glare_View setting. If it is >= 0.5, we consider weather to be bright:
```

``fallback=Weather_Clear_Glare_View,1``

``fallback=Weather_Foggy_Glare_View,0.25``

> With this example we use the "interior day" mode for Clear weather, but does not use it for Foggy weather.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this example we use the "interior day" mode for Clear weather, but do not use it for Foggy weather.
```

> Keep in mind that after teleportation to another region we still use an old current weather if player did not move to exterior in the new region yet.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that the engine will not update the weather type after a teleportation to a different region if the player did not move to an exterior in the new region yet.
```

> This feature can be used to implement a street illumination, glowing windows, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature can be used to implement street illumination, glowing windows, etc.
```

Reviewer 3: Wasn't actually resolved.

> Advantages of described approach over old wods with glowing windows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Advantages of described approach over old mods with glowing windows:
```

1. There is no need to spawn additional objects for day and night mode

2. There is no need to attach a script to every switchable object

> An example of mod which uses this feature is the `Glow in the Dahrk`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example of mod which uses this feature is `Glow in the Dahrk`_.
```

Per-group animation files support
---------------------------------

In original engine it is possible to add a custom animation file to NPC to override some animations (usually idle ones).
In OpenMW it is possible to override animations via the same file for all actors which use a given basic animation file.

> If you want to override animations for all bipedal actors (they use the xbase_anim.nif skeleton), you can put your animations to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to override animations for all bipedal actors (which use the xbase_anim.nif skeleton), you can put your animations to the
```

Reviewer 3: The term is "biped" actually. "the" article should be omitted.

> ``Animations/xbase_anim`` folder in your ``Data Files`` (you can use the "multiple data folders" feature here).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
``Animations/xbase_anim`` folder in your ``Data Files``. You can also have them in a data folder with higher priority.
```

> In this case any bipedal actor without custom animation will use your animations, but if he has additional animations, they have the higher priority.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case any bipedal actor without custom animation will use your animations, but if the actor has additional animations, they have the higher priority.
```

Reviewer 3: Biped again.

They have higher priority.

> For example, all bipedal actors by default use the same spellcasting animations, so the xbase_anim override is enough.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, all biped actors in Morrowind normally use the same spellcasting animations, so overriding xbase_anim spellcasting animations is sufficient.
```

> If you want to override walking animations, you should override the ``xbase_anim_female`` and ``xbase_anim_kna`` for females and beast races as well,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you want to override walking animations, you should override ``xbase_anim_female`` and ``xbase_anim_kna`` animations -- these are used for women and beast races, and
```

> because they have own walking animations, so they override ones which come from the xbase_anim (including its overrides from ``Animations`` folder).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
because they have their own walking animations, they override ones which come from ``xbase_anim``and its loose overrides.
```

To enable this feature, you should have this line in your settings.cfg:

``[Game]``

``use additional anim sources = true``

> An example of mod which uses this feature is the `Almalexia's Cast for Beasts`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example of mod which uses this feature is `Almalexia's Cast for Beasts`_.
```

Weapon sheathing support
------------------------

> In OpenMW it is possible to show sheathing weapons on actors back, including quivers and scabbards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In OpenMW it is possible to show equipped, but not currently wielded weapons on actors' back, including quivers and scabbards.
```

> This feature conflicts with old mods which use a scripted scabbards, arrows with particles or decorative quivers (attached to the left pauldron, for example).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature conflicts with old mods which use scripted scabbards, arrows with particles or decorative quivers (attached to the left pauldron, for example).
```

1. Basics

The minimum you need is the ``xbase_anim_sh.nif`` file from the `Weapon Sheathing`_ mod and this line in your settings.cfg:

``[Game]``

``weapon sheathing = true``

The ``xbase_anim_sh.nif`` contains default placement points for different weapon types.

> It is enough to get the Gothic-style weapon sheathing for all bipedal actors (without quivers and scabbards).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
That way you'll get Gothic-style weapon sheathing for all biped actors (without quivers and scabbards).
```

2. Scabbards

> To show a scabbard, you need a mesh with ``_sh`` suffix. For example, if a weapon uses the ``foo.sh`` mesh, a sheat mesh should have the ``foo_sh.nif`` name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To show a scabbard, you need a mesh with ``_sh`` suffix. For example, if a weapon uses the ``foo.sh`` mesh, a sheath mesh should have the ``foo_sh.nif`` name.
```

Reviewer 3: For a scabbard to be displayed,
...
if the weapon has a model named ``foo.nif```, the scabbard model should be named ``foo_sh.nif``

There should be an least two nodes in the sheath file:

> ``Bip01 Weapon`` - represents a weapon itself (may be just a grip for sword, for example). Is not shown when the weapon is drawn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``Bip01 Weapon`` - represents the weapon itself (may be just a grip for sword, for example). It is not shown when the weapon is drawn.
```

> ``Bip01 Sheath`` - represents scabbards, quivers, etc. It is shown always when the weapon is equipped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``Bip01 Sheath`` - represents scabbards, quivers, etc. It is shown always, even when the weapon is equipped.
```

Author: The term "equipped" means "equipped in slot", not "drawn".

> You can move or rotate nodes if the default placing from the ``xbase_anim_sh.nif`` does not look good for your weapon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can move or rotate nodes if the default placement from the ``xbase_anim_sh.nif`` does not look good for your weapon.
```

> If you want to do not use this feature for a specific weapon, you can create a stub sheath mesh with just one root node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to exempt a specific weapon from using this feature, you can create a stub sheath mesh with just one root node.
```

> If you want to use the common weapon mesh, but use the custom placing, you can create a sheath mesh with an empty ``Bip01 Weapon`` node and move it as you want.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to use the common weapon mesh, but with custom placement, you can create a sheath mesh with an empty ``Bip01 Weapon`` node and move it as you want.
```

3. Quivers

> To show the quiver for ranged weapon, you need these nodes in the sheath file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To show the quiver for a ranged weapon, you need these nodes in the sheath file:
```

``Bip01 Sheath`` node, as for scabbards

> ``Bip01 Ammo`` node to show ammo in the quiver

Reviewer 3: Here and after ammo should be spelled as "ammunition" except the node naming instances.

> ``Bip01 Weapon`` to show the weapon itself (is not needed for throwing weapons)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``Bip01 Weapon`` to show the weapon itself (not needed for throwing weapons)
```

The ``Bip01 Ammo`` should have some empty child nodes, to which the engine will attach ammo nodes.

> The appearance and count of shown ammo depends on type and count of equipped ammo. It the ammo has a wrong type (e.g. bolts for bow), it won't be shown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The appearance and count of shown ammo depends on type and count of equipped ammo. If ammo has a wrong type (e.g. bolts for bow), it won't be shown.
```

It is important that empty nodes should have names starting with the ``"Bip01 "``, otherwise the mesh optimizer can remove them.

4. Shields

> Shields holstering is not supported at the moment since it conflicts with any mods which use pseudo-shields as held items (such as Animated Morrowind and Hold It).

Reviewer 2: May be make "Animated Morrowind and Hold It" as reference to this mod(s)

Author: IIRC, there are no official references to these mods, and these references are irrelevant anyway.

Extended modding feature overview
#################################

OpenMW supports some extended modding features out of box.

> These features can conflict with some mods, and such situations should be handled as any other mod conflict - a conflicted mod should be patched.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These features can conflict with mods, and such situations should be handled as any other mod conflict - the conflicting mod should be patched.
```

The engine itself does not provide any kind of blacklisting.

Native herbalism support
------------------------

In OpenMW it is possible to add one or more NiSwitchNodes with a ``HerbalismSwitch`` name.

> Every such switch should have at least two child nodes (a first one represents the node in the normal mode, the second one - in the harvested mode).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Every switch node should have at least two child nodes (the first one represents the unharvested container, the second one - the harvested container).
```

2. There is no need to attach a script to every container

3. It supports an ownership check (the original engine without MWSE does not)

4. It does not alter an original respawn mechanics

An example of mod which uses this feature is `Graphic Herbalism`_.

Animated containers support
---------------------------

It is possible to attach opening/closing animations for containers. To do it, you need to create a KF-file for container with such groups:

1. ``Idle`` (with ``Start`` and ``Stop`` keys)

2. ``ContainerOpen`` (with ``Start``, ``Loot`` and ``Stop`` keys)

3. ``ContainerClose`` (with ``Start`` and ``Stop`` keys)

The ``Idle`` group can have the zero time, the ``Loot`` key for ``ContainerOpen`` allows to play a part of opening animation in the background.

For example, with the following setup, the opening animation has 1.0 sec duration and shows the container window in the middle of opening animation:

::

    0.0: ContainerOpen: start
    0.5: ContainerOpen: loot
    1.0: ContainerOpen: stop

It is also possible to attach opening/closing sounds to container's animations:

::

    1.0: ContainerClose: open
    1.01: Sound: AC_dw_drawer_close
    2.0: ContainerClose: stop

> An approach is the same as for other animation sounds (you need to register sound record in the ESM/ESP file).

Reviewer 3: The approach is the same as the one used for sound text keys in general

Note that the sound starting time value is slightly higher than the closing animation start, otherwise sound will be played at the end of opening animation in this example.

> It is important to assign a RootCollisionNode to the container mesh -- the collision shape will depend on the animation state otherwise, what can have a performance impact.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is important to assign a RootCollisionNode to the container mesh -- the collision shape will depend on the animation state otherwise, and this can have a performance impact.
```

Advantages of described approach over old animated containers mods:

1. There is no need to attach a script to every container

2. Part of opening animation can be played in the background, so we do not waste player's time

An example of mod which uses this feature is `OpenMW Containers Animated`_.

Day/night state support
-----------------------

It is possible to add one or more NiSwitchNodes named ``NightDaySwitch``.
Every such switch should have at least two child nodes

> (first one represents the node in the normal mode, second one - in the night mode, optional third node - a day mode for interiors).

Reviewer 3: (first one represents the node in the normal mode, second one - in the night mode, optional third node - a day mode for interiors).
```suggestion
(the first node represents the normal node state, the second one represents the node state during night, the optional third node represents the node state during daytime in interior cells).
```

The behavior of such a model:

> 1. During day in exteriors it is in the "common" mode (child 0).

Reviewer 3: Here and after: day time and night time.

Normal mode.

2. During night in exteriors it is in the "night" mode (child 1).

3. During day in interiors it is in the "common" mode or "interior day" mode (child 2) depending on weather.

4. During night in interiors it is in the "common" mode.

> An actual switch time depends on weather settings in openmw.cfg:

Reviewer 3: The actual state toggling time depends on the sunrise/sunset time settings

::

    fallback=Weather_Sunrise_Time,6
    fallback=Weather_Sunset_Time,18
    fallback=Weather_Sunrise_Duration,2
    fallback=Weather_Sunset_Duration,2

> With this example a night mode starts at 20:00 and ends at 6:00.

Reviewer 3: These settings lead to the "night" starting at 20:00 and ending at 6:00.

> In interiors we check if the weather is bright to enter the "interior day" mode using the Glare_View setting. If it is >= 0.5, we consider weather to be bright:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The engine checks if the weather is bright enough to support "interior day" mode using the Glare_View setting. If it is >= 0.5, it considers the weather bright.
```

::

    fallback=Weather_Clear_Glare_View,1
    fallback=Weather_Foggy_Glare_View,0.25

> With this example we use the "interior day" mode for Clear weather, but do not use it for Foggy weather.

Reviewer 3: With these settings "interior day" mode would be used for Clear weather but would not be used for Foggy weather.

If you want to override animations for all biped actors (which use the xbase_anim.nif skeleton), you can put your animations to the
``Animations/xbase_anim`` folder in your ``Data Files``. You can also have them in a data folder with higher priority.
In this case any biped actor without custom animation will use your animations, but if he has additional animations, they have higher priority.

For example, all biped actors in Morrowind normally use the same spellcasting animations, so overriding xbase_anim spellcasting animations is sufficient.
If you want to override walking animations, you should override ``xbase_anim_female`` and ``xbase_anim_kna`` animations -- these are used for women and beast races, and
because they have their own walking animations, they override ones which come from ``xbase_anim`` and its loose overrides.

To enable this feature, you should have this line in your settings.cfg:

::

    [Game]
    use additional anim sources = true

An example of mod which uses this feature is `Almalexia's Cast for Beasts`_.

Weapon sheathing support
------------------------

> In OpenMW it is possible to show equipped, but not currently wielded weapons on actor's back, including quivers and scabbards.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In OpenMW it is possible to display equipped, but not currently wielded weapons on the actor's model, including quivers and scabbards.
```

``Bip01 Weapon`` - represents the weapon itself (may be just a grip for sword, for example). Is not shown when the weapon is drawn.

``Bip01 Sheath`` - represents scabbards, quivers, etc. It is shown always when the weapon is equipped.

You can move or rotate nodes if the default placement from the ``xbase_anim_sh.nif`` does not look good for your weapon.

If you want to do not use this feature for a specific weapon, you can create a stub sheath mesh with just one root node.

If you want to use the common weapon mesh, but with custom placement, you can create a sheath mesh with an empty ``Bip01 Weapon`` node and move it as you want.

3. Quivers

To show the quiver for a ranged weapon, you need these nodes in the sheath file:

``Bip01 Sheath`` node, as for scabbards

``Bip01 Ammo`` node to show ammunition in the quiver

``Bip01 Weapon`` to show the weapon itself (not needed for throwing weapons)

The ``Bip01 Ammo`` should have some empty child nodes, to which the engine will attach ammunition nodes.

The appearance and count of shown ammunition depends on type and count of equipped ammunition. It the ammunition has a wrong type (e.g. bolts for bow), it won't be shown.

> It is important that empty nodes should have names starting with the ``"Bip01 "``, otherwise the mesh optimizer can remove them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is important to make sure the names of empty nodes start with the ``"Bip01 "``, or the engine will optimize them out.
```

Extended modding feature overview
#################################

> OpenMW supports some extended modding features out of box.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
OpenMW supports some extended modding features out of the box.
```

> These features can conflict with mods, and such situations should be handled as any other mod conflict - a conflicted mod should be patched.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
These features can conflict with mods, and such situations should be handled as any other mod conflict by patching the mods themselves.
```

> The engine itself does not provide any kind of blacklisting.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The engine itself does not provide any kind of blacklisting of incompatible mods.
```

If an organic container's mesh has such nodes, it is considered to be a plant. During activation, a window with the plant's content is not shown,
OpenMW transfers the contents directly into the player's inventory, triggers a theft crime event if the plant is owned and toggles the harvested model state.

It is also possible to use scripts with ``OnActivate`` command for such containers. For example, when player needs a tool to harvest a plant (e.g. a pickaxe for ore).

Keep in mind that the collision detection system ignores switch nodes, so add a ``RootCollisionNode`` or ``NCO`` NiStringExtraData to harvestable meshes.

Advantages of described approach over old herbalism mods:

1. There is no need to spawn separate "harvested" objects

2. There is no need to attach a script to every container

3. It supports an ownership check (the original engine without MWSE does not)

4. It does not alter original respawn mechanics

An example of mod which uses this feature is `Graphic Herbalism`_.

Animated containers support
---------------------------

> It is possible to attach opening/closing animations for containers. To do this, you need to create a KF-file for container with such groups:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It is possible to attach opening/closing animations for containers. To do this, you need to create a KF-file for the container with the following groups:
```

1. ``Idle`` (with ``Start`` and ``Stop`` keys)

2. ``ContainerOpen`` (with ``Start``, ``Loot`` and ``Stop`` keys)

3. ``ContainerClose`` (with ``Start`` and ``Stop`` keys)

The ``Idle`` group can have the zero time, the ``Loot`` key for ``ContainerOpen`` allows to play a part of opening animation in the background.

> For example, with the following setup, the opening animation has 1.0 sec duration and shows the container window in the middle of opening animation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, with the following setup, the opening animation has a duration of 1.0 sec, and shows the container window in the middle of opening animation:
```

::

    0.0: ContainerOpen: start
    0.5: ContainerOpen: loot
    1.0: ContainerOpen: stop

It is also possible to attach opening/closing sounds to container's animations:

::

    1.0: ContainerClose: open
    1.01: Sound: AC_dw_drawer_close
    2.0: ContainerClose: stop

> The text key approach is the same as the one used for sound playback in animations in general

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The text key approach is the same as the one used for sound playback in animations in general.
```

Note that the sound starting time value is slightly higher than the closing animation start, otherwise sound will be played at the end of opening animation in this example.

> It is important to assign a RootCollisionNode to the container mesh -- the collision shape will depend on the animation state otherwise, and this can have a performance impact.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to assign a RootCollisionNode to the container mesh; otherwise the collision shape will depend on the animation state, and this can have a performance impact.
```

Advantages of described approach over old animated containers mods:

1. There is no need to attach a script to every container

> 2. Part of opening animation can be played in the background, so we do not waste player's time

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. Part of the opening animation can be played in the background, so we do not waste the player's time
```

> An example of mod which uses this feature is `OpenMW Containers Animated`_.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
An example of a mod which uses this feature is `OpenMW Containers Animated`_.
```

Day/night state support
-----------------------

It is possible to add one or more NiSwitchNodes named ``NightDaySwitch``.
Every such switch should have at least two child nodes
(the first node represents the normal node state, the second one represents the node state during night,
the optional third node represents the node state during daytime in interior cells).

> The behavior of such a model:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The model behavior is determined by the following rules:
```

> 1. During day in exteriors it is in the "normal" mode (child 0).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. During the day in exteriors, it is in the "normal" mode (child 0).
```

> 2. During night in exteriors it is in the "night" mode (child 1).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. During the night in exteriors, it is in the "night" mode (child 1).
```

> 3. During day in interiors it is in the "normal" mode or "interior day" mode (child 2) depending on weather.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
3. During the day in interiors, it is in the "normal" mode or "interior day" mode (child 2) depending on weather.
```

> 4. During night in interiors it is in the "normal" mode.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
4. During the night in interiors, it is in the "normal" mode.
```

> The actual state toggling time depends on the sunrise/sunset time settings in the `openmw.cfg`:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The actual state toggling time depends on the sunrise/sunset time settings in `openmw.cfg`:
```

::

    fallback=Weather_Sunrise_Time,6
    fallback=Weather_Sunset_Time,18
    fallback=Weather_Sunrise_Duration,2
    fallback=Weather_Sunset_Duration,2

These settings lead to the "night" starting at 20:00 and ending at 6:00.

> The engine checks if the weather is bright enough to support "interior day" mode using the Glare_View setting. If it is >= 0.5, the engine considers the weather bright.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The engine checks if the weather is bright enough to support the "interior day" mode using the Glare_View setting. If it is >= 0.5, the engine considers the weather bright.
```

::

    fallback=Weather_Clear_Glare_View,1
    fallback=Weather_Foggy_Glare_View,0.25

> With these settings "interior day" mode would be used for Clear weather but would not be used for Foggy weather.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
With these settings, the "interior day" mode would be used for Clear weather, but would not be used for Foggy weather.
```

> Keep in mind that the engine will not update the weather type after a teleportation to a different region if the player did not move to an exterior cell in the new region yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that if player teleports (either via spells or console) to a different region, the weather will not be updated until entering an exterior cell.
```

This feature can be used to implement street illumination, glowing windows, etc.

> Advantages of described approach over old mods with glowing windows:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Advantages of the described approach over old mods with glowing windows:
```

1. There is no need to spawn additional objects for day and night mode

2. There is no need to attach a script to every switchable object

> An example of mod which uses this feature is `Glow in the Dahrk`_.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
An example of a mod which uses this feature is `Glow in the Dahrk`_.
```

Per-group animation files support
---------------------------------

> In original engine it is possible to add a custom animation file to NPC to override some animations (usually idle ones).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In the original engine it is possible to add a custom animation file to NPC to override some animations (usually idle ones).
```

In OpenMW it is possible to override animations via the same file for all actors which use a given basic animation file.

> If you want to override animations for all biped actors (which use the xbase_anim.nif skeleton), you can put your animations to the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you want to override animations for all biped actors (which use the xbase_anim.nif skeleton), you can put your animations in the
```

> ``Animations/xbase_anim`` folder in your ``Data Files``. You can also have them in a data folder with higher priority.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
``Animations/xbase_anim`` folder in your ``Data Files``. You can also have them in a data folder with a higher priority.
```

> In this case any biped actor without custom animation will use your animations, but if he has additional animations, they have higher priority.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In this case any biped actor without a custom animation will use your animations, but – if he has additional animations – they have a higher priority.
```

For example, all biped actors in Morrowind normally use the same spellcasting animations, so overriding xbase_anim spellcasting animations is sufficient.

> If you want to override walking animations, you should override ``xbase_anim_female`` and ``xbase_anim_kna`` animations -- these are used for women and beast races, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to override walking animations, you should override ``xbase_anim_female`` and ``xbase_anim_kna`` animations (which are used for women and beast races), and
```

> because they have their own walking animations, they override ones which come from ``xbase_anim`` and its loose overrides.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
– because they have their own walking animations – they override ones which come from ``xbase_anim`` and its loose overrides.
```

> – because they have their own walking animations – they override ones which come from ``xbase_anim`` and its loose overrides.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
since they have their own walking animations, those will override ones from ``xbase_anim`` and its loose overrides.
```
Gah, this is confusing. :)

To enable this feature, you should have this line in your settings.cfg:

::

    [Game]
    use additional anim sources = true

> An example of mod which uses this feature is `Almalexia's Cast for Beasts`_.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
An example of a mod which uses this feature is `Almalexia's Cast for Beasts`_.
```

Weapon sheathing support
------------------------

In OpenMW it is possible to display equipped, but not currently wielded weapons on the actor's model, including quivers and scabbards.

This feature conflicts with old mods which use scripted scabbards, arrows with particles or decorative quivers (attached to the left pauldron, for example).

1. Basics

The minimum you need is the ``xbase_anim_sh.nif`` file from the `Weapon Sheathing`_ mod and this line in your settings.cfg:

::

    [Game]
    weapon sheathing = true

The ``xbase_anim_sh.nif`` contains default placement points for different weapon types.
That way you'll get Gothic-style weapon sheathing for all biped actors (without quivers and scabbards).

2. Scabbards

> For a scabbard to be displayed, you need a mesh with ``_sh`` suffix. For example, if the weapon has a model named foo.nif, the scabbard model must be named foo_sh.nif.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For a scabbard to be displayed, you need a mesh with an ``_sh`` suffix. For example, if the weapon has a model named foo.nif, the scabbard model must be named foo_sh.nif.
```

There should be an least two nodes in the sheath file:

> ``Bip01 Weapon`` - represents the weapon itself (may be just a grip for sword, for example). Is not shown when the weapon is drawn.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
``Bip01 Weapon`` - represents the weapon itself (may be just a grip for sword, for example). It is not shown when the weapon is drawn.
```

> ``Bip01 Sheath`` - represents scabbards, quivers, etc. It is shown always when the weapon is equipped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``Bip01 Sheath`` - represents scabbards, quivers, etc. It is always shown when the weapon is equipped.
```

You can move or rotate nodes if the default placement from the ``xbase_anim_sh.nif`` does not look good for your weapon.

If you want to exempt a specific weapon from using this feature, you can create a stub sheath mesh with just one root node.

If you want to use the common weapon mesh, but with custom placement, you can create a sheath mesh with an empty ``Bip01 Weapon`` node and move it as you want.

3. Quivers

> To show the quiver for a ranged weapon, you need these nodes in the sheath file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To show the quiver for a ranged weapon, you need the following nodes in the sheath file:
```

``Bip01 Sheath`` node, as for scabbards

``Bip01 Ammo`` node to show ammunition in the quiver

``Bip01 Weapon`` to show the weapon itself (not needed for throwing weapons)

The ``Bip01 Ammo`` should have some empty child nodes, to which the engine will attach ammunition nodes.

> The appearance and count of shown ammunition depends on type and count of equipped ammunition. It the ammunition has a wrong type (e.g. bolts for bow), it won't be shown.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The appearance and count of shown ammunition depends on type and count of equipped ammunition. If the ammunition has a wrong type (e.g. bolts for bow), it won't be shown.
```

It is important to make sure the names of empty nodes start with ``"Bip01 "``, or the engine will optimize them out.

4. Shields

> Shields holstering is not supported at the moment since it conflicts with any mods which use pseudo-shields as held items (such as Animated Morrowind and Hold It).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Shield holstering is not supported at the moment since it conflicts with any mods which use pseudo-shields as held items (such as Animated Morrowind and Hold It).
```

> An example of mod which uses this feature is mentioned `Weapon Sheathing`_.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
An example of a mod which uses this feature is `Weapon Sheathing`_.
```
